Well, time for the moment of truth.
Time to see if all this version stuff is going to fix our concurrency issues.
So I've opened up this little test script once again, as a reminder, this test script is going to
first try to create a post or ask me not a post, but a ticket at a price of five.
I'm then going to update it to ten and then update it to 15.
So we're going to expect to see all tickets eventually at a price of 15.
I've also increased the number of requests that are made in parallel to 400.
Now, technically, remember, it's 400 times three, so really 1200 requests more or less in parallel
again with DOJ's, not technically in parallel, truly, but more or less running at the same time.
So beyond that, also, remember, I've got two terminal windows open here.
They are both connected directly to MongoDB.
On the right hand side is my order database.
On the left hand side of my orders database.
And on the right hand side is tickets.
So I'm going to start up that script.
I've got my scaffold window open over here and we're going to see some pretty interesting output.
Beyond seeing a tremendous number of messages saying that we have processed some number of events,
we're actually going to start to see a couple of errors in there as well.
We're going to expect to see an error any time some event is being processed out of order.
So the errors are going to come from this line of code right here or well, really this line of code
right here.
So we're going to try to find some very specific version of a ticket.
If we are processing events out of order, this query is not going to find anything.
We won't have a ticket and we'll end up throwing an error.
Now, keep in mind that when we throw the error after 5 seconds of not calling it message back right
here, and that streaming server is going to automatically re dispatch or re emit the event that we
fail to process.
And so after those 5 seconds, in theory, we will have processed the second event or the first update.
And so when we try to tackle this third event or the second update now, we should be able to find a
ticket with the correct version.
So how we're going to actually see that reflected inside of our scaffold logs, we're going to see a
tremendous amount of output very quickly, then a brief pause.
And then after about two or 3 seconds, we're going to then see another small little batch of log statements,
stuff saying, oh, we have now processed this event.
So that's what we're going to see in total.
Well enough talking, let's actually run this.
So I'm going to do a node index JS to run the test script.
I'll then go back over to my scaffold logs.
We're going to see all this output and then it's going to stop really quickly.
Okay.
There's the stop.
Now we're going to wait a couple of, like half a second and then boom, those are all the backfield
events.
So these are all the events that fail to be processed because they were processed out of order.
And if I even scroll back up, we're going to see some number of logs or errors inside of here as well.
So these say ticket not found.
That is an instance of where we try to process some event out of order so I can keep scrolling up and
I'll see that.
Yep.
There definitely are some number of events that were processed out of order, or at least we attempted
to.
It's now the last little moment of truth here.
We're going to run a query on both our databases and we're going to expect to find the exact same number
of tickets with the same price inside of both them.
So on the orders database, well, let's do tickets first because this one should always be correct.
I'll do a DB tickets find.
And I'm really going to expect to see that every ticket has a price exactly.
At 15.
And so I find that all 400 tickets that I created, yep, they end up at the price of 15.
So now we're going to do the same query over here on the orders database and we're going to expect to
see exactly 400 as well, which would indicate that all of our data is truly in sync.
So I'll do a DB tickets, find the price of 15, get the length, and there we go.
That's it.
So it looks like this version tracking stuff really does solve a lot of this versioning issue.
So it's going to keep track of the version of all these different records.
We're going to use that implicitly to naturally order our different events.
So this really is fantastic.
It's a great solution to make sure that even if we start to receive our events out of order for some
crazy reason, we're always going to bounce the out-of-order event process, the one that we should
be processing, and then eventually reissue this one and apply it to our database.
So this really is a great solution.
But I think it would be a little bit better if we maybe had a couple of tests as well.
So let's take a pause right here.
There's one or two other quick things I want to discuss, and we'll continue in just a minute.